Korin Valtaar, also known as "the Korthan," or simply "Korr," was a human male Korthan warrior during the era of the New Accord. With his Korthan armor, RK-90 blaster pistol, Varran sniper rifle, and distinctive thoryn helmet, Valtaar was both well-equipped and enigmatic—a stranger whose past was shrouded in mystery to others. An orphan born on Qen Vatra in the waning years of the Galactic Accord, he was raised on Selvath as a foundling by the Keepers of the Vigil, an orthodox religious sect that had broken off from mainstream Korthan society. He vowed to walk the Korthan Path, swearing to never again reveal his face to another living being, and eventually joined the Enclave, which operated in a secret covert on the planet Velkris. After the fall of the Galactic Dominion, Valtaar made a reputation for himself as a member of the Hunters' Syndicate. Far from the authority of the New Accord, he traveled across the galaxy's Fringe Reaches in his personal VX-70 Assault Ship, the Iron Talon, collecting bounties and delivering them, warm or cold, to Syndicate Master Brell Karou. Valtaar became battle-hardened, a man of few words, and a formidable hunter in an increasingly dangerous galaxy.

In 9 ASR, Valtaar was hired on Velkris by a Dominion remnant faction to acquire a mysterious asset. The Korthan tracked the bounty to the world Hadron-7 and discovered that his quarry was a Vael-sensitive infant belonging to the same species as Skarn Grand Master Oneth. A paternal bond soon formed between Valtaar and the child, who the hunter later learned to be named Zushu. The outwardly-emotionless Korthan could not bring himself to surrender the youngling to the Dominionists and absconded with the child, bringing him into conflict with the remnant's brutal leader, Varl Saren. Valtaar, alongside Karou, former assault trooper Tessa Vorne, and others, went on to drive the Varl’s forces out of Velkris City and reunite with the Forgemother, the leader of his covert and staunch upholder of the Korthan Creed. She christened Valtaar and Zushu as a clan of two, commanding the Korthan to care for the child until he could deliver him to the remaining Skarn Knights, few in number and scattered across space.