Jaro Vared, known only as Jaro until being given the surname Vared, was a human male smuggler and hero of the Covenant to Restore the Accord. He rose from an impoverished childhood to become captain of the Nova Drifter, a leader in the Insurgent Covenant and an instrumental figure in the Crownfall War during the reign of the Galactic Dominion. Although he did not believe in the Vael controlling his destiny, Jaro came to believe in the cause of galactic freedom, joining Skarn Joren Sunfall and Princess Aria Sornen in the fight for the Uprising. Following the war, Jaro and Aria welcomed a son, Cael Vared, who became the dark knight Zarek Vohl after being corrupted by the Umbral side of the Vael. Although their relationship floundered, Aria hoped that Jaro, as Cael's father, could find a way to break the Umbral side's hold on their son. Jaro Vared became legendary across the galaxy as both a smuggler and war hero of the Uprising.

As a young man fighting for survival on the mean streets of Corvann, Jaro yearned to fly among the stars with dreams of becoming the galaxy's best pilot. With a fellow gutter-rat named Saela, Jaro lived as a street thief with Corvann's notorious Night Vipers gang until an important deal with Lady Vexen went bad, causing Jaro to flee Corvann. He was given the full name "Jaro Vared" by a Dominion recruitment officer while entering the Dominion Academy. He became known as Cadet 124-329 while serving as a Dominion cadet, and was eventually assigned to the 224th Dominion Armored Division. On Drennan, Jaro met the thief Doran Veck and wound up deserting the Dominion and joining his crew to steal unrefined voidfuel from Vorn in order to pay a debt to Halden Mors, a kingpin with the Scarlet Veil crime syndicate. By the end of this scheme, during which he reunited with Saela, Jaro was forced to kill his mentor Veck after a brutal double-cross. Jaro also became rivals and close friends with fellow smuggler Lorin Castrel and the Brakari Wrengar, the latter who became his best friend. Castrel owned the Nova Drifter, a fast ship with which Jaro made the Vorn Run in just twelve parsecs and won from Lorin in a game of drazil.