Joren Sunfall, a Vael-sensitive human male, was a legendary Skarn Master who fought in the Crownfall War during the reign of the Galactic Dominion. Along with his companions, Princess Aria Sornen and General Jaro Vared, Sunfall served as a revolutionary on the side of the Covenant to Restore the Accord—an organization committed to the downfall of the Galactic Dominion and the restoration of democracy. Following the war, Sunfall became a living legend, and was remembered as one of the greatest Skarn in galactic history.

The son of Skarn Knight Aric Sunfall and Senator Sienna Andiva, Joren Sunfall was born along with his twin sister, Aria, in 19 BSR. As a result of Andiva's death and Aric's fall to the Umbral side of the Vael, the Sunfall children were separated and sent into hiding, with Aria adopted by the royal family of Elaris while Joren was raised by his relatives on Sarrenth. Longing for a life of adventure and purpose, Sunfall joined the Uprising and began learning the ways of the Vael under the guidance of Skarn Master Oberon Vance, whose first apprentice was Joren's own father. During the Battle of Calon, Sunfall saved the Covenant from annihilation by destroying the Dominion's planet-killing superweapon, the Null Spire. He continued his training in the years that followed, determined to become a Skarn Knight like his father before him, and found a new mentor in Grand Master Oneth. After his master's death, Sunfall participated in the Battle of Surnak in 4 ASR, during which he confronted the Vohr Lord Vohrn Drael, whom he learned was in fact his father, Aric Sunfall. With Joren's help, Aric returned to the Lumen side of the Vael by killing the Emperor and Dark Lord of the Vohr Vohrn Maledict at the cost of his own life, fulfilling his destiny as the Promised One. Following the Battle of Surnak, Sunfall trained his sister as a first Skarn apprentice on Tahnaris, but Aria ended her training after the birth of her son and seeing his death as a result of finishing her knighthood.