Wrengar, known affectionately to his friends as Wren, was a Brakari male warrior, smuggler, mechanic, pilot, and resistance fighter who fought in the Rift Wars, the Crownfall War, the Cold War, and the subsequent Crimson Order-Vanguard War. He hailed from the planet Brakar where he was born during the High Accord Era and became a Brakari military leader. During the Rift Wars, he was captured by Sarnek slavers and held captive on Vesska, but he worked with a fellow captive, Skarn Commander Ashka Veno, to escape. He later commanded Brakari forces of the Vharro Brakari Militia during the Battle of Brakar alongside the Grand Army of the Accord, led by Skarn General Oneth. During the battle, one of the last ones of the war, Oneth's legion troopers received Protocol Zero from the Vohr Lord Vohrn Maledict and, with the help of Wrengar and his fellow Brakari Chieftain and General Varggul, Oneth escaped Brakar and the destruction of the Skarn Order.

In the years that followed, during the rule of the Galactic Dominion, Wrengar was enslaved by the Dominion until he was rescued by Corporal Jaro Vared, becoming his co-pilot aboard the Nova Drifter during a raid on Vorn for Scarlet Veil with Doran Veck and Saela. Winning the Drifter from Lorin Bavrandom Castrel, they later worked in the employ of crime lord Jorba the Vorlax until Vared was forced to dump a shipment of stardust to avoid trouble with the Dominion, at which point a bounty was placed on their heads. Soon thereafter, Wrengar and Vared were hired by Skarn Master Oberon Vance to ferry him, Joren Sunfall, V-3PX, and A6-N2 to Elaris on a mission vital to the survival of the Covenant to Restore the Accord. After finding Elaris was destroyed, the group was brought aboard the Null Spire, where they helped Princess Aria Sornen escape from captivity and return to the Insurgent base on Calon 4. Though Wrengar and Vared initially chose to leave Calon 4 and not join the Uprising, they ended up fighting in the Battle of Calon and were instrumental in Sunfall's destruction of the Null Spire, a major victory for the Uprising.